# OpenAI Prompt Generator
## AI-Driven Text Generator (COMP318 Project)

The application uses the OpenAI API to provide various text generation functionalities, allowing users to interact with AI models for creative and structured text outputs. The team is currently using ```gpt-3.5-turbo-1106``` model to manage a cheap usage for testing and generating contents.

### Description
This project is built with React, Node.js, and Express.js stack with the integration of OpenAI's API. The application offers a limited range of text manipulation and generation features which is also based on OpenAI's prompt example categories:

- **Text Extract:** Uses AI to extract information from provided text.
- **Text Generation:** Users can input  a prompt to receive relevant data generated by AI.
- **Content Transform:** Transforms existing text to meet specified criteria, such as tone or style adjustment.
- **Code Assistance:** Helps creation of basic code snippets based on user requirements.
- **Natural Language Processing:** Provides summaries, answers questions, or analyze text.
- **Structured Data:** Works with data to provide insights or generate reports.

### App Demonstration
Want to check how the app works? Please check this YouTube link/s below:

[*To Be Updated*](#)

## Step-by-step instructions (For end-users and learners)
How to create it from scratch?

### Software installation and OpenAI Developer Account
- **Nodejs Installer:** [Download](https://nodejs.org/en) and install nodejs. Please select your specific platform.
-  **Visual Studio Code:** [Download](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and install VSCode. Please select your specific platform.
- **OpenAI Dev account:** [Signup](https://platform.openai.com/) for OpenAI account if you don't have yet. Your account **need to be verified** and have credits to generate an API key.
    - After setting up your account, go to left pane, API keys > Create new secret key. 
    - Make sure to save it somewhere as you won't be able to copy the key again in the API keys menu.

### Setting Up the Front-end
In VSCode, click `View` > `Terminal` and type the following commands:

This creates a new React app in the `my-app` folder and it installs necessary React Packages.
```
npx create-react-app my-app
cd my-app
```


### Setting Up the Back-end
This creates a `package.json` file inside the `backend` folder, which will manage the backend dependencies. Express will be used to setup the server and OpenAI SDK will allow the backend to communicate with the OpenAI API. Dotenv package will integrate `dotenv` in the Nodejs app.
```
mkdir backend
cd backend
npm init -y
npm install express openai dotenv
```

### Setting Up Environment Variable
Remember the API key you just generated? You'll need that in this setup. Inside the `backend` folder, create .env file. Open the file and type this:
```
OPENAI_API_KEY=<paste-your-openai-api-key-here>
```

### Configuring the Backend Server
Copy and paste the `server.js` inside the `backend` folder. You can also retype it if you want. Better for practice. Keep in mind while doing this, you will know that our server runs in `port 3001`.


### Configuring the Frontend
Go back to the `root` folder if you are inside the `backend` folder. You can type `cd ..` in your terminal to go back one up. Install `concurrently` to run both servers with one command.
```
npm install concurrently --save-dev
```

Check the `package.json` located in the `root` folder. Add the following code inside the `"scripts"`. It should look similar to this:

```
  "scripts": {
    "start": "react-scripts start",
    "build": "react-scripts build",
    "test": "react-scripts test",
    "eject": "react-scripts eject",
    "server": "cd backend && node server.js",
    "dev": "concurrently \"npm run server\" \"npm start\""
  },
```

### Frontend Proxy setup
The Frontend and Backend works with different port. To make sure that both works together, we need to create a proxy setup so that the React app can reach the backend server seamlessly. Still in the `package.json` located in the `root` folder add the proxy code just before the last curly brace.
```
  "proxy": "http://localhost:3001"
}
```

### Copy and create other files
Copy or create the other files/folders such as `App.js`, `components` folder and all files inside such as (`Code.js`, `Generate.js`, `Extract.js`, etc.)

### Run the App
If everything went smoothly, from the root folder in the `terminal`, run the application:
```
npm run dev
```
This command uses `concurrently` and it actually runs `npm run server` and `npm start`

**Okay that was long! Hopefully it works for you!**

## Instructions for Developers
Interested in contributing or exploring the code? Please follow these steps:
1. Fork it and clone the repository.
2. Navigate to the project directory.
3. Install necessary dependencies. Yes you already know better than us! :D
4. Run the application locally.

## Bugs? Features? Feedback? Optimizations?
If there are any bugs please let us know. We value your contributions! We are still learning and we hope to learn more from the devs all around the `Hello World!`. Here's how you can help:
- Identify and report bugs via GitHub issues.
- Suggest features or enhancements for codes. We would love to learn how the experienced devs do it.